In the last lesson we explored a visual representation of what we did in the previous lessons and what
we need to do in the upcoming lessons but from a coding perspective there are certain things that we
actually have to consider regarding our architecture before we actually start coding out our solution.
So what we know is that we need to pull the data on our fire store collections collection into our application
and then store it in our redux.
So our application has access to it by using the selectors and pulling them from the appropriate reducer.
Now there are actually two things we need to think about first.
The first is that when looking at this data is this data complete.
Does the data represent everything that I need in order to utilize it best for my application.
Well you remember that when we stored our collections data inside a fire store we removed the root Name
property and the reason we did that was because the data of the wrote name is not important to the back
end because it's only relevant to the front.
In other words it's only important to our desktop web application what the root name needs to be.
If we had say a native mobile application that was also pulling in this collection data it doesn't need
that data at all.
In fact that's just simply cluttering up the memory allocation for our database.
And it's also cluttering up the data that we're pulling in to other applications that are not our web
application.
So with that in mind we know that we need to add this root Name property back onto the data that we
pull in from firestorm.
So that's one thing.
The other thing we need to think about is where inside of our applications components tree do we actually
want to put the code that will fetch this data as well as store inside of our redux.
The reason that we have to make this consideration is due to the nature of how the application is set
up.
Now if we go to this diagram let's imagine that this tree represents our components if you imagine the
top level here is our app.
Let's say this was our header.
Let's say this was our shop page.
This was our collections preview or our collections overview page.
And let's say this is the collection page for the individual collections.
We know that both these components actually need the data that we are pulling from our collections in
our fire store.
So I want you to actually pause the video and think where based on this tree do you think we should
put the code to actually fetch that data.
So positive video and think about the answer now hopefully you'd gave it some thought and if you guessed
inside of this node then you are correct.
The reason we want to put the code in the nearest ancestor to any place in our application that needs
the actual data that we're fetching is because we want to only write the code that fetches that data.
One time we don't want to write that code in both these places because if we do that we have to repeat
our code more than once.
Even if they're doing the exact same thing and by the nature and principle of writing code in a dry
manner meaning don't repeat yourself.
We want to put it inside of the nearest parent that will call the code to fetch that data from our fire
store.
So let's say for pure examples case we had a component here that needs the data and a component here
that needs the data well the nearest parent for these is actually our top level app component.
And for this reason this is where we would end up putting the code in order for these components to
have access to that data because when we render the appropriate children we want to either have that
data already loaded or in the process of being fetched and the way that react renders its components
is always when you render this component.
So let's say our collection page when you mount this you've actually mounted all of the parents as well
and these parents are always going to render first before the child renders for this reason.
This is how we can initialize the data that will fetch the data that these components that our children
will need.
Also it allows us to follow this dry principle.
So that's the main thing that we need to do.
So knowing this this node actually represents our shop component which is where we hold our collections
overview as well as our collection page components.
So let's start writing the code to convert that code over inside of our shop component itself.
We need to leverage the component did mount lifecycle method in order to perform the actual fetch.
Now that fetch code is going to look very similar to the code that we already wrote inside of our app
Jess when we fetch the authenticated state of our user.
And the reason we put this here inside of the top level app node was for the exact same reason our entire
application might need the current user.
So it makes the most sense to put it in the component that of course will render first at the highest
level which is our app component.
Now inside of our shop component the first thing we need to do is convert this functional component
that is our shop page over to a class based component.
So let's do that.
So in order to do that we actually need to switch this concept to a class and then we need to say extends
Reactor Component.
We're gonna put these squiggly braces and then we're gonna cut this coda all we need to remember is
that we're pulling the match off of the props in our functional component.
So we'll get rid of this and we'll copy this bracketed code over what we're going to do now is inside
of our render statement.
We are going to return that code that we just had.
We're also going to d structure the match off of our props.
So we'll do that by saying match equals this stuff props.
And now our component is converted.
If you just remember the format of doing it like that it's very easy to convert from functional component
over to a class component.
So now that we have this we actually need to write our component did mount method before we do that.
We got to think whenever we do this pattern we know that we are going to end up subscribing to some
reference.
Right.
And before we do that we need to remember that we actually need to also unsubscribe from it whenever
we unmet our component.
Just like we did inside of our app I'll definitely touch upon this subscriber pattern a little more
in a couple lessons from now because we're going to take a deeper dive into what this is doing.
But for now you just need to know that that's the main thing we gotta remember to do is set this unsubscribe
value inside of our class component.
So what we're going to do is we are going to write this new unsubscribe from snapshot method.
Now this snapshot is going to be the snapshot representation of our collections array that we're going
to get from firestorm and we're going to fetch that inside of our component did mount method and the
actual coach do that.
We're going to leverage our fire story.
So what we'll do is we will pull in our Firestarter library from our fire store utilize so we're going
to write import fire store from Fire Base firebase utilize now that we have this.
What we'll do inside of our component at Mount is we'll say cost collection ref
equals fire store dock collection.
And then the name of our collection which is collections
now.
As you remember that was the title of our collections collection inside a firestorm.
So I know it's a little confusing naming wise but that's just sometimes how it goes.
Now that we have it what we want to do is we want to get this data.
So in order to get this data we're actually going to use a method on this new collection ref that we've
already used before which is inside of our app J.S. if you remember with our user ref we checked on
snapshot.
So we're going to use that exact same method except with our collection.
So we'll say collection ref dot on snapshot meaning that whenever the collection ref updates or whenever
this code gets run for the first time this collection ref will send us the snapshot representing the
code of our collections objects array at the time when this code renders.
Now we know that inside of what we get back from on snapshot will be the snapshot object of our collection.
But we also know that we want to perform some asynchronous requests because the data is on the actual
objects inside of this query snapshot as we'll see.
So what we'll do is we will write an async function and this function is going to get snapshot as the
property.
And then what we'll do is we'll simply console log out the snapshot to see what it is that we got back
from firestorm and now if we look in our application we see that this is the query snapshot and inside
of this snapshot object we see the docs which is a property that holds all of these five documents as
the snapshot that we have if we actually want the value we'll have to call dot data on them.
But we see that the idea lines up with what the actual objects ideas are inside of our back at database.
So we know we're getting the right data.
But now what we need to do is we need to actually transform this data into the right shape that we need
as well as add any values that it doesn't have such as our wrote name.
So how we'll do that is we will pass it into a function in our firebase utilize.
Very similar to how we did it when we wrote this create user profile document code.
So what we'll do is we'll open up our firebase utilize and we'll write this new function.
Now this function is going to get the whole snapshot.
And how we'll do that is we will set up this new concept called convert collections snapshot to map
because we want to convert it to an object instead of the array that we know we're going to get back.
So what we'll do is we will write this function so that it gets this snapshot object so this will actually
be called the collections.
So let's actually write this as a error function and then what we'll do is we will write out this actual
transformation on the dark objects that we just looked at which was that array of query snapshot documents
and we will make sure that we return from this modification the right object with not only the right
properties but also our new rolling property.
So what we'll do is we will say const transformed collection is going to equal collections done docs.
So Doc docs is gonna give us our query snapshot array that we were looking at right here and what we'll
do is we'll say dot map on this docs.
Now in each one we're going to get the document object and what we'll do is we will pull off the title
and the items which are the two properties that we want from the actual Doc data.
So you remember we need to in order to get the data off the snapshot.
We've got to call the data method.
So once we pull off these properties what we need to return from this is an actual object right from
this map function that represents the final object representing all the data we want for our front end.
So we know that we want this name that we know we don't have on our back it and all we're going to do
is we are going to call this javascript method call in code.
You are I this method comes with every javascript render.
And what you can do with it is pass it some string and it'll give you back a string where any characters
that A you are l cannot actually handle or process such as certain symbols spaces or whatever that you
actually never see in a you or l it will make sure to convert them into a virgin that the U R L can
actually read.
So we know we need to do this because our route name is a thing that we use in order to route by.
You are out.
So what we'll pass in is just the title because we know the title is going to be pretty much the same
string that we want for our routing.
So hats jackets sneakers whatever that title is we're gonna also use it for the root name but we also
want to make sure that we lowercase it so once we've done that we also want our I.D..
So the I.D. we actually don't get on the doc doc data we get from the actual document itself.
So this is just going to be Doctor I.D. because the I.D. belongs on the doc snapshot object but we want
it in the object that we end up storing in our redux.
Once we have that we can simply pass in our title and items as we've D structure them.
And now this is going to be the final shape of the object we want.
So let's just make sure to actually console log our new transformed collection and then let's export
this out and use it so that we can actually see if our code is working and we're getting the right object
that we want in the end.
So inside of our shop component we are also now going to import that new method we wrote.
Now what we're going to do is we're just going to pass this into the snapshot so if we save this and
we go back to our application we see that we get an array of our objects and there we go.
It is in the shape that we actually want.
We have our I.D..
We have our items.
We have a root name and we have our title so everything is working as we want it to.
So now that we have our data in the right shape that we want and we've put in the right place in our
component tree we need to convert this from an array to the final object map that we were talking about
as we had originally had it inside of our front an application.
So we'll do that in the next lesson.
So I'll see you in that lesson.